h1. EEGBase

h2. An database portal specialized for EEG/ERP experiments

h3. "http://eegdatabase.kiv.zcu.cz":http://eegdatabase.kiv.zcu.cz

EEG Database enables community researchers to store, update, download and search data and metadata from EEG/ERP experiments. The system is developed as a standalone product; the database access is available through a web interface.

h2. Technical Overview

EEGBase as a web application uses modern web and database technologies:
* SQL and NoSQL databases
** PostgreSQL
** Elasticsearch
* Application
** Spring MVC architecture
** Hibernate JPA
** Wicket framework
* Web Server
** Jetty

h2. Getting Started
* Prerequisites
** Installed PostgreSQL v9.2 (http://www.postgresql.org/)
** Installed Jetty 	web server and servlet container v7.5.0 (http://www.eclipse.org/jetty/)
** Installed Java SE 6 JDK (http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) 
** Installed Elasticsearch v1.0 (http://www.elasticsearch.org/)
** Installed your favourite IDE (Eclipse, Netbeans, IntelliJ etc.) with configured GIT
* EEG Database
** Create new database in PostgreSQL (default name is "eeg"); tables will be created automatically by Hibernate framework
** Clone eegdatabase GITHub repository to local destination
** Open eegdatabase Maven project in your IDE and let the Maven to download dependencies
** Edit database accesses in @eeb-database/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/db.properties.sample@ and save the file as @db.properties@
** Set-up run and deployment configuration
*** Select Jetty as a main deploying server
*** Edit Jetty start up options; increase permanent generation memory size @-XX:MaxPermSize=256m@
*** Set-up deployment artefacts
** Set-up Java SE 6 JDK as a default project SDK
* Frequent problems
** Ensure you have set JAVA_HOME variable in system environment variables
** Elasticsearch requires JAVA 7.
** Jetty port (8080 by default) is occupied by another service application (e.g. Apache Tomcat, Glassfish).
** db.properties file is not set properly.
** DB user has not enough privileges to the database schema.

h1. License

<pre>
This software is licensed under the Apache 2 license, quoted below.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not 
use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of 
the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software 
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT 
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the 
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under 
the License.
</pre>
